Prepared by: Antonio Garcia Tagaruma 
 
STAGE 1. Context and Initial Design 
1.​ Educational context 
The context of the educational project:  
This project is for IES da Illa de Arousa, a secondary-school located on a 
marine island in the Ría de Arousa, Pontevedra. The school is based in an 
island culture, where the Atlantic lifestyle and mollusc industry are 
predominant. This situation offers a unique particularity and a sense of 
community, but also presents obstacles for educational collaborations. 
Students' age and educational stage: The project has a target audience of 
adolescents in the fourth year of the ESO (Secondary Education) system 
(15-16 years old). These students are in a transition year, and making 
decisions about their vocational or baccalaureate studies. They are digitally 
literate but can be passive; therefore, this project will make them active. They 
are local but may lack a sense of connection with the largely urban digital 
economy. 
Educational need, barrier or challenge:  
Key challenges are the need to overcome the intermittent connectivity issues 
common in coastal areas and so use "offline-first" digital strategies. Also, the 
classroom environment is a mix of learners and differentiated instruction is 
required to address different academic and learning needs. An educational 
need is to make use of cultural and local resources. This requires the 
connection between traditional maritime knowledge and skills, and the new 
web development technology to ensure, in this digital era, that the coastal 
education and traditions are not lost but strengthened. 
2.​ Learning topic 
Learning topic:  
Information Technology (IT) with a special focus and deep dive into Web 
Development. This choice is an attempt to transform students from digital 
citizens to citizen developers, with basic knowledge of front-end web 
technologies: HTML, CSS and JavaScript, and key principles of User 
Interface/User Experience (UI/UX). Learning stage: 4th year of ESO 
(Secondary Education). We choose this level of education because it's a 
milestone as students are finishing their compulsory education and beginning 
to decide on their post-compulsory education and training (vocational or 
baccalaureate). The purpose is to offer these 15-16 year olds information and 
industry skills that they can use to address the challenges of their local 
community and the digital economy, and to boost their local identity with the 
latest technological skills. 
Initial project idea 
3.​ What type of learning experience? 
The project is in fact an applied team-based learning experience, similar to the 
one of a local digital agency. The students will be working in small, 
cross-disciplinary teams with each student assuming a role (such as project 
manager, user interface or user experience designer, front-end developer). 
The teams' primary challenge is to conceptualise, design and finally develop a 
sophisticated web portal. The portal will be a tool to rigorously improve 
sustainable tourism in Ría de Arousa and, by extension, to preserve and 
celebrate the local culture and maritime heritage of IES da Illa de Arousa. This 
interactive and high stakes scenario is designed to encourage the teenagers 
to engage in an authentic and complex problem solving process and through 
this, to foster complex critical thinking, communication and decision making 
with the teenagers. The project is also an invitation for them to use and 
practice design thinking techniques, user research and ethical considerations 
of digital representation in a vulnerable community. 
Brief description of technology used in the activity: 
Technology is integral to the project as it is the primary teaching platform, 
collaboration and product. Students will be given scaffolding and will use 
technologies to develop their project. These include foundational front-end 
tools such as HTML (structure and semantic markup) and CSS (advanced 
styling, responsive design) to web programming (dynamic interactive front-end 
design). It will also include the use of industry standard UI/UX tools like Figma 
for initial sketching, prototyping and peer review which will result in a 
user-friendly interface. Throughout this course, technology is used to link 
academic and real world issues. It demands the integration of local content 
(local maritime knowledge, island history and culture) and real world data 
(local weather data as an API, official tourism data) to make it as technically 
robust as it is locally relevant. 
 
 
